README.md, before:

# SecureComm
### An End-to-End Encrypted Communication System

This document describes the security architecture, design principles, and threat model of SecureComm.

## Abstract

SecureComm is a secure communication platform designed to enable confidential, real-time messaging using an end-to-end encryption model. The system ensures that message confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity are preserved against both passive and active adversaries, including the service operator itself.

The architecture follows a zero-knowledge paradigm in which cryptographic keys are generated, stored, and used exclusively on client devices. Servers act solely as message relays and session coordinators, without access to plaintext content or long-term secrets.

## Problem Statement

Many modern communication platforms retain access to user data through server-side key storage, message logging, or excessive metadata retention. Such designs introduce unnecessary trust assumptions and expand the attack surface.

SecureComm eliminates these risks by enforcing encryption at the client layer and by treating the server as an untrusted intermediary.

## Security Objectives

SecureComm is designed to achieve the following objectives:

- Confidentiality: Only intended recipients can access message contents.
- Integrity: Unauthorized modification of messages is detectable.
- Authentication: Participants can verify the identity of peers.
- Forward secrecy: Compromise of long-term keys does not expose past messages.
- Server blindness: The server cannot decrypt or interpret user data.

## Threat Model

The system assumes the presence of:

- Network-level attackers capable of intercepting traffic.
- Malicious or compromised relay servers.
- Passive observers performing traffic analysis.
- Unauthorized clients attempting impersonation.

SecureComm does not protect against fully compromised client endpoints.

## System Design Overview

- Cryptographic keys are generated locally on client devices.
- Session keys are derived using secure key exchange mechanisms.
- Messages are encrypted before leaving the client.
- The relay server forwards encrypted payloads only.
- Decryption occurs exclusively on the recipient client.

Plaintext messages never transit or persist on the server.

## Cryptographic Considerations

SecureComm relies on established cryptographic primitives and widely reviewed libraries. No proprietary or experimental algorithms are used.

Key material is ephemeral wherever possible, and plaintext is never written to persistent storage.

## Data Handling and Privacy

- No plaintext message storage.
- No server-side encryption key storage.
- Minimal metadata retention limited to operational requirements.

## Limitations

SecureComm does not mitigate:

- Endpoint compromise.
- User-controlled key leakage.
- Traffic analysis based on timing or volume alone.

These limitations are explicitly acknowledged.

## Conclusion

SecureComm demonstrates a practical implementation of end-to-end encrypted communication using a zero-knowledge server architecture. The system minimizes trust assumptions and enforces confidentiality by design rather than policy.

## License

Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License.

Commit message:

Revise README for usage and installation details
Updated README to include usage instructions and installation steps while removing the limitations section.

README.md, after:

# SecureComm
### An End-to-End Encrypted Communication System

This document describes the security architecture, usage, and threat model of SecureComm.

## Abstract

SecureComm is a secure communication platform designed to enable confidential, real-time messaging using an end-to-end encryption model. The system ensures that message confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity are preserved against both passive and active adversaries, including the service operator itself.

The architecture follows a zero-knowledge paradigm in which cryptographic keys are generated, stored, and used exclusively on client devices. Servers act solely as message relays and session coordinators, without access to plaintext content or long-term secrets.

## Problem Statement

Many modern communication platforms retain access to user data through server-side key storage, message logging, or excessive metadata retention. Such designs introduce unnecessary trust assumptions and expand the attack surface.

SecureComm eliminates these risks by enforcing encryption at the client layer and by treating the server as an untrusted intermediary.

## Security Objectives

SecureComm is designed to achieve the following objectives:

- Confidentiality: Only intended recipients can access message contents.
- Integrity: Unauthorized modification of messages is detectable.
- Authentication: Participants can verify the identity of peers.
- Forward secrecy: Compromise of long-term keys does not expose past messages.
- Server blindness: The server cannot decrypt or interpret user data.

## Threat Model

The system assumes the presence of:

- Network-level attackers capable of intercepting traffic.
- Malicious or compromised relay servers.
- Passive observers performing traffic analysis.
- Unauthorized clients attempting impersonation.

SecureComm does not protect against fully compromised client endpoints.

## System Design Overview

- Cryptographic keys are generated locally on client devices.
- Session keys are derived using secure key exchange mechanisms.
- Messages are encrypted before leaving the client.
- The relay server forwards encrypted payloads only.
- Decryption occurs exclusively on the recipient client.

Plaintext messages never transit or persist on the server.

## Cryptographic Considerations

SecureComm relies on established cryptographic primitives and widely reviewed libraries. No proprietary or experimental algorithms are used.

Key material is ephemeral wherever possible, and plaintext is never written to persistent storage.

## Data Handling and Privacy

- No plaintext message storage.
- No server-side encryption key storage.
- Minimal metadata retention limited to operational requirements.

## Installation

### Local Development Setup

To run SecureComm locally:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/pangerlkr/SecureComm.git
cd SecureComm
npm install
npm run dev
